2.3.4  |  How to interpret ACC
Clustering structure of a dendrogram that represents affinities among areas is converted to an ACC diagram. The affinity can be approximately estimated by Euclidean distance among areas in ACC diagram. To quantify the affinity, the shortest distance between two areas called ＆pairwise distance＊ (PD) is calculated using 亥 and d (Figure 4a). When two areas are on the same circle, the PD is the circular arc length between two areas calculated by the equation 2 ▼ 休 ▼ r ▼ (亥 / 360), where r = d / 2. When two areas are on different circles, the PD is the circular arc length of the smaller circle between two areas plus the difference in the radius of two circles calculated by the equation 2 ▼ 休 ▼ r1 ▼ (亥 / 360) + |r1 ? r2|, where r1 is a smaller radius. PD quantifies the affinities among all areas of a dendrogram including unclustered areas. For instance, in the example of ((A+B)+(C+D)), the affinities of CA, CB, DA, and DB cannot be inferred from the dendrogram (Figure 3b). However, it is evident in the ACC diagram that A is closest to B and farthest away from C (Figure 3c) , which is confirmed by the shortest PD (1.763) for (A + B) and the longest (7.583) for AC (Appendix S4b). ACC makes it easier to assess the affinities of areas that are clustered towards the bottom of a dendrogram with other areas.

In the present biogeographic analyses where temporal dynamics in area affinities are significant, an additional metric called ＆travel distance＊ (TD) is introduced to measure the change in position of an area relative to a fixed point between two periods or coeval faunas. TD is the shortest length between two positions of an area in the ACC circles derived from multiple subset dendrograms, and calculated as described for pairwise distance (Figure 4b). The total travel distance of an area (TTD) is indicative of biogeographic affinity change of the area relative to a fixed point during an inclusive period or for an aggregated fauna. A smaller TTD for an area indicates a persistent stronger biogeographic link with the fixed area during an inclusive period or for n\an aggregated fauna. An additional metric called ＆comprehensive travel distance＊ (CTD) is measured, which is the sum of TTDs of each area calculated using all other areas as fixed points. The metric is more informative because it enables comparison of TTDs of all areas and also useful when it is not feasible to select an area as the fixed point. A smaller CTD of an area indicates a less affinity change during the inclusive time interval, suggesting that it is more biogeographically stable. The sum of CTDs and change in CTD of each area over time or among coeval faunas may reveal spatio-temporal biogeographic patterns that are significant in overall faunal evolution. The metric can also be applied to analysis of different taxonomic groups within a region, providing information on how biogeography controls the evolution of various groups in a region.


FIGURE 4  |  Pairwise distance (PD), travel distance (TD), and comprehensive travel distance (CTD). (a) Pairwise distance of area A, B, and C in ACC circles derived from a single dendrogram. (b) Travel distance of an area in ACC circles derived from multiple dendrograms; in this example, the positions of an area relative to a fixed point (F) in ACC diagrams derived from four dendrograms are indicated by the numbers in circle and travel directions by single-headed arrows; the dotted line is a longer alternative TD between 3 and 4 than the solid line (see Appendix S5 for data). (c) Comprehensive travel distances (CTD) of Sino-Korea platform using all other areas as fixed points for three intervals; abbreviations of epochs (Tr = Tremadoc, Ar = Arenig, Ll = Llanvirn, Ca = Caradoc).
